# Fine-grained-image-classification
Using CNN for the Image classification of 265 bird species. 
Data set of 265 bird species. 36609 training images, 1325 test images(5 per species) and 1325 validation images(5 per species.
All images are 224 X 224 X 3 color images in jpg format. Data set includes a train set, test set and validation set. Each set contains 265 sub directories, one for each bird species. The data structure is convenient if you use the Keras ImageDataGenerator.flowfromdirectory to create your train, test and valid data generators. The data set also include a file data.csv. This cvs file contains two columns. The filepaths column contains the full file path to an image file. The labels column contains the class name associated with the image file. The data.csv file if read in using df= pandas.readcsv(data.csv) will create a pandas dataframe which then can be split into traindf, testdf and validdf dataframes to create your own partitioning of the data into train, test and valid data sets.
NOTE: The test and validation images in the data set were hand selected to be the "best" images so your model will probably get the highest accuracy score using those data sets versus creating your own test and validation sets. However the latter case is more accurate in terms of model performance on unseen images.
Images were gather from internet searches by species name. Once the image files for a species was downloaded they were checked for duplicate images using a python duplicate image detector program I developed. All duplicates detected were deleted in order to prevent their being images common between the training, test and validation sets.
